guess what it's not too late for you to
blow up on YouTube whether you thought
about getting in and wondered if you
missed the opportunity or if you've got
a YouTube channel but it's like kind of
dead I'm going to share with you today
exactly what you need to do to blow up
your YouTube channel you have not missed
the opportunity I don't care how old you
are I don't care how late you think you
are to the game it is still possible and
in fact if you're a mider somebody who's
over 40 your content is in high
demand first a backstory I started my
YouTube channel in 2006 I think that's
probably the year that YouTube started
and I posted up some Fitness content
back then I was on TV so I did get some
steady growth of subscribers for the
first uh 14 years I literally grew about
8,000 subscribers and that's like
nothing to you know scoff at but about
8,000 subscribers per year for 14 years
and I would mess around and I never
could understand like why can't I make
YouTube blow up and looking back at my
old content like now I totally get it
but I also was like frustrated because
it felt like a lot of work and it did I
couldn't see The Return of investment
even though I've got lots of friends who
are killing it on YouTube who that's
their primary lead source that is their
a huge source of their income they were
constantly telling me like shelene
you're so good on video you you're very
comfortable on video like you like video
most people don't like video why
wouldn't you do YouTube you like long
form more than you like short form why
wouldn't you do YouTube and I wanted to
do YouTube but every time I tried to do
YouTube it just never went anywhere so I
just couldn't justify spending the money
so in this episode of build your tribe
I'm going to share with you exactly what
I did to blow up my YouTube channel now
if you are watching this build your
tribe episode on YouTube you're probably
looking at this Channel and going like
wait you haven't blown up this channel
you're right we haven't blown this
channel up yet this is a brand new
channel that we started for build your
tribe I blew up my shellene Johnson
Channel this year and I'm going to share
with you exactly how I did it because we
are going to apply those principles here
to build your tribe the very first thing
that I did was hired a coach I became a
student I hired a coach and I dug back
into a the video ranking Academy which
was basically an online course um shout
out to Sean kenel and the folks that
think media it's a fantastic way for you
to learn all the things you need to
learn about YouTube and let me just
shoot straight with you and say don't
try to learn this stuff on YouTube you
will drive yourself crazy you'll watch
the wrong people you'll get the wrong
information like the shortest most
direct way to learn exactly what you
need to do is to hire a coach to work
with someone who will directly tell you
exactly what you need to do and there
are agencies I'm going to share with you
the people that we used in in just a
moment or you can do an Online Academy
like the video ranking Academy where
they're updating it constantly so that
you know not what you're supposed to be
doing back in like 2020 but like what
you're supposed to be doing right now
this year to blow up your channel that
was the first thing that I did and I
want to show you the results so as you
can see in the first 14 years we grew
about
112,000 subscribers and I made
$14 in 14 years I made $1 a year on
YouTube can you see why I just couldn't
understand like why why do I even want
to do this until I started figuring out
the right way to do this and how to
capitalize on AdSense and now we're on
Pace to make over
$85,000 annually and that number just
keeps climbing and that wasn't even our
goal my goal on YouTube is to reach my
ideal customer it's to reach my avatar
it's to build my podcast listenership
and we're I can't even tell you how much
it has blown up our podcast and that was
my intention the ads sense was like
that's just an extra nice little thing
but as you can see we've added over
175,000 new subscribers in a year where
it took us 14 years just to get to 112
so it is possible to blow up even if
you're over 25 shall we say I'm actually
55 I'm happy to tell you I'm over I'm 55
and people are looking for content from
older creators when I say older like I
know it sounds weird like that someone
over 40 is considered older but yeah
like you're more credible there's a
certain way that we speak there's a
certain way that we want to consume
information and so people our age and
older are on YouTube and they want to
consume content that they resonate with
so people are looking for you the number
two thing that I did was I committed to
a niche and this is something I not only
did I not want to do it I didn't see how
it was possible because I was creating a
YouTube channel using the podcast
feature meaning it was just going to be
me recording my podcast but on video and
my podcast the shellene show which I
will link below in our show notes you'll
love it the shellene show is about
everything we just talk about life so
sometimes I just talk about what's going
on in my life sometimes I talk about
travel relationships hormones Fitness
Nutrition diet um sex uh parenting
reality TV
ADHD gut health like anything that's
going on in my life or that I think I
can help other people by sharing it you
know like sometimes we talked about
caring for an elderly parent all of
those things are on the shellene show
and that is not a niche that's called
lifestyle and lifestyle is not a niche
right so I was very unclear on how do I
Niche down when my I want to just record
my podcast and it's really not very
niched so here's what we did initially
at the beginning of the year I just did
as I always did I recorded every episode
without filtering myself without
changing the topics whatsoever and after
after about like five or six or seven
videos which were just episodes of the
shellene show some were starting to pop
off and they were getting not like
hugely but like I could tell oh we're
getting a lot more engagement we're
getting a lot more comments and we're
getting new viewers YouTube was showing
our content to Unique viewers and so
then what I started doing was step three
step three is being patient about the
content that's in kind of like a wide
niche right like let's just say that
Lifestyles a niche which it isn't but
like let's just pick a variety of topics
you want to post on and then you have to
patiently allow your audience to tell
you which categories or buckets they are
most interested in now I still record a
variety of topics for the shellene show
but once I started figuring out like
what YouTube wanted specifically for me
then those the topics that like didn't
fit inside one of those buckets for
example like it's just me rambling about
what's going on in my life those videos
don't do well that doesn't do well on
YouTube so those podcasts I just do
audio I don't have to do my hair and
makeup in fact I just record them in my
car on my phone and so what we figured
out is that meant fewer videos on
YouTube and I'm going to get to that in
just a second so therefore I'm still
following the same process the same uh
schedule for my podcast right two
episodes a week they come out on
Wednesday and Friday but on Friday we're
releasing an episode that fits within
one of those buckets and it took a
matter of like probably 4 months to
figure out and to really figure out what
those buckets were then we started
doubling down on those buckets now step
four was taking advantage of the podcast
category on YouTube so first of all you
if you're not on YouTube and you're on
Instagram you're on Tik Tok and you're
on all those other places like you are
missing out and everyone kept telling me
that I'm like blah blah blah blah blah
no it's absolutely true so many of our
other businesses have just blown up as
our Channel continues to grow because I
really think especially people who are
over 40 we're so sick of short form
content we're so sick of like 3 seconds
and 15 seconds and 10 seconds it makes
us feel chaotic it makes us feel anxious
and we're longing for Content that kind
of Keeps Us company content that we can
trust content that we can start to feel
like we know that person we like them
and it makes feel a little bit calmer it
makes us feel
connected and most social media makes us
feel
disjointed so if you're looking for
somebody who wants if that's you like if
you're saying yeah that's totally that's
how I feel then I guarantee that's who
you should be serving by creating that
type of content yourself and it's
actually easier I think to create long
form content than it is to figure out
how to make a you know 30 second re pop
off trust me and I and I teach Instagram
so I know it sounds kind of strange for
me to say but I really do think that
long form is where we're going to
continue to head and I think even the
short form platforms like Tik Tok we
know this are now prioritizing content
that's beyond 5 10 7 8 10 minutes
because they know this is where we're
heading people want long form content
and the truest of long form content keep
you company content is
podcasting we most of us can't take a
shower can't put on our makeup we can't
uh drive down the road we can't eat
dinner in silence like we have to have
something in our ear like a podcast or a
YouTube and what I learned is the number
one way that people are discovering
podcasts today is on YouTube so I'm like
duh I got to get on YouTube I just have
to convince myself to turn on the camera
turn on my phone and I'm going to record
a podcast anyways just do it on camera
so that you know what if that does it
just means I have get my hair and makeup
done I mean not done I have to do I have
take a shower that's what it means um so
I took advantage of the podcast category
um if you are not recording or starting
a YouTube channel using the podcast
category that's okay what you do need to
take advantage of is the feedback the
engagement the comments that people are
giving to you because they're going to
tell you if you're consistently posting
they're going to tell you which content
buckets they want you to double down on
and that's what you need to double down
on all right the fifth thing that we did
was really took it very seriously ly the
same advice you've probably heard too
which is you've got to Workshop your
subject your title and the thumbnail and
even the first minute of your video
before you film now the coaches that I
hired to help me and even in video
ranking Academy they just pound this
into your head and I'm like I just I
don't want to do that that's what I said
I'm like I I don't want to do that I
just I've got this great idea I just
don't I don't feel like working so hard
on like coming up with the perfect title
I know the subject and I will record it
and I'm not like 100% clear on where I'm
going to go so I'm going to come up with
the title after the fact and then um I'm
really good on canvas so I'm going to
make my own thumbnail like I
literally would just be like Oh I'm
going to try to be funny I know what I'm
going to do I'm going to watch all the
other people's YouTube videos and I'll
just start my video just like theirs and
if you go back and look at my analytics
you will see in the first part of the
last year we were just trying to make it
happened like things were improving
because I was listening to my coaches I
was applying all the things I learned in
V but it just wasn't popping off yet and
I was really kind of frustrated because
there were certain videos I'm like oh
this is so good and I know this is going
to be the one that's going to track the
right subscribers and it would just be
freaking crickets nothing and it was so
frustrating and I I didn't throw in the
towel I just kept listening to the
comments looking at what things people
were responding to and then really this
is the hard part really being very
critical about that process and
understanding like okay dang it I got to
just bite the bullet and what would
happen What happens if I I just say all
right I know the subject I know that
this week I want to talk about let's
just say intermittent fasting and
instead of just like rambling about
intermittent fasting let's Workshop that
subject what that means is using tools
like we used vid IQ and Tu buddy is that
what it's called yeah vid IQ and Tu
buddy we would use those to take a look
at like okay intermittent fasting what
are some of the keywords that are
trending right now what are people
searching for what is where is there
like kind of a a missing space where
there's a lot of people searching for it
but there's not a lot of competition
because not a lot of people are
producing a video on this specific topic
and then how can I be very specific
about the title and once I really
understood like this makes a huge
difference and I started figuring out
the title at least a general idea of
what the title was going to be like you
know specifics about intermittent
fasting then what I could do is deliver
on the promise of the title in the first
minute of the video and that took us
probably six months for me to like
really like finally uh get it like hello
people look at they look at first they
look at the um title then they glance at
the thumbnail and those two things
should both like it should make you feel
like you have to watch the video
right and then the second you watch the
video if the first minute doesn't
deliver on the implied promise of both
the title and the thumbnail people swipe
away and we kept seeing this over and
over and over again in the first like
five months you know of creating of
really getting serious I should say this
year of creating uh YouTube content for
the shelene show and I I could not
figure out like why were people swiping
away in the first 15 seconds it's
because they don't know me it's because
they looked at the title and the
thumbnail and if I didn't deliver on
that in the first whatever 15 30 seconds
they swiped away so we got very serious
number five I think is perhaps one of
the most important takeaways so if
you're really if you really want to blow
up your YouTube content learn absolutely
everything you can from the experts
about thumbnails and it's it's so
different than like design like I
thought I was creating the best
thumbnails and I absolutely wasn't that
leads me to number six number six is I
outsourced the editing of my video and
the design of the thumbnail and I'm just
going to say this because it's the
honest truth um I I tried Outsourcing my
thumbnail many times to like I hired
people on Fiverr I hired people on
upwork I and they were great they were
awesome but I didn't feel like they
understood my girl you know what I'm
saying sorry I think a lot of the
YouTube thumbnails look a lot like Mr
beastes or they like appeal to like a
dude and I'm like they don't appeal to
me they don't appeal to my girl So
eventually I hired a female us-based um
expert to help me design these
thumbnails and sometimes what she
designs I'm like I don't I don't know if
I like it but I got to trust you and she
is crushing it like freaking crushing it
our latest video on Castor oil check
this out it's insane like it got over
100,000 views which is crazy and our
click-through rate right now is through
the roof and that's because of her
amazing designs for thumbnails and know
you can't have her name but I'm going to
give you some I'm going to give you some
sources so I want to say shout out to
Whitney and I want to say shout out to
noi noi is my amazing video editor and
so like this is like a little side note
hiring a video Eder I I could do like a
whole video on
that but I just feel like I'm really
lucky that he is a dude who gets my girl
if that makes sense so no and I have
been working together now for a year and
it was there we stumbled a lot in the
beginning because you have to I
personally think like you have a way
that you want your video edited and you
doing it yourself just doesn't make
sense when somebody else can do it so
much faster I would much rather you
spend your time workshopping the title
the thumbnail the content all those
things right Don't Ed you don't have
time to edit the video so it was Finding
an editor and and working through those
frustration points now you know right
away I think if you've got the wrong
editor but if you've got somebody who's
really willing to grow and to take
feedback and to learn so my entire team
so I've got someone who edits the audio
and then someone who edits the video and
then I've got someone now who by the way
in the beginning it was just all me and
I have learned that the the more I trust
my team the faster we grow they're so
much smarter than me so Paul puts the
audio up on the podcast just the audio
stream noi edits the video um Whitney
creates the thumbnail and helps with the
title Kristen workshops that title the
description the keywords she watches the
numbers like it's it's fun and it's
exciting and it didn't happen overnight
I added like one person at a time but I
would say the the person that I have
spent the most time with in the
beginning was noi my video editor and it
was like even showing them like very
specific things like I don't like this
particular B rooll and I'm going to tell
you why and I would I wouldn't just tell
them what to change I would explain my
thinking and I would explain my
rationale and I would explain how it
would make the viewer feel and I would
talk and I would share with him like
different font like everything and now
it's crazy it's it's just such a
beautiful symbiotic relationship because
I get the videos back now and I mean
just every single edit is priceless it's
so reliable and so so finding the right
editor is freaking everything it's
everything take your time get to know
that person work with them praise them
you know pour into them be patient with
them unless you know it's the wrong
person you know what I mean because
before I found noi I had some gray
letters but they just didn't get those
little nuances you know what I'm saying
here's the difference I could tell noi
wanted to learn wanted to master that
was like excited about mastering this
the same way I am and that's how I knew
it was the right person that's for my
team number seven is going to really get
you excited number seven is we started
posting less now we did this based on
the coaching I got from Liz at vid
fluenc and I'm going to link this is how
much of a caring giving person I am
because it makes me nervous to share her
contact with you because I want all of
her attention she's helped us blow up
this channel so I highly recommend her
especially if you are a midlife female
she's helped a lot of midlife females
like blow up their YouTube channels but
based on her recommendation so I
maintain my podcast schedule the audio
but in terms of my YouTube channel when
a video takes off like this one right
now for castor oil she suggests that we
not post even though I have another
video that's ready to go out on Friday I
have a feeling she's going to tell me
don't post it because you don't want to
cannibalize all of the traffic and new
subscribers that you're getting from
from that one video so if I were to post
a new video on Friday what will probably
HP what would probably happen is it
would compete with the one right now
that is gaining me so many new
subscribers so that was at first I was
like oh because i' heard like probably
many of you that in most on most social
media platforms the recommendation is
post more post more post more but not so
on YouTube when you've got a banger when
you've got one that's like really taken
off you can sit back and watch watch it
grow to the point where you're like okay
now it's starting to level off now I can
post another video I don't know about
you but that was such a relief it just
feels like so much it makes sense it's
so much less pressure and if you look at
like you know the biggest of the big on
YouTube that being uh Mr Beast I mean he
posts like one video every three or four
months or something so I'm I'm all about
it I think it's great I love it it makes
me so excited to be able to post less
and all of that everything that we done
to blow up the channel is about
listening and learning it's about being
a student it's about understanding it's
so much slower to try to figure this
stuff out yourself go to The Experts
like I didn't just have vid fluence work
with me I had them work with everybody
on my team I didn't I'm not the only
person who went through V I had my team
go through V so when we're all learning
and growing at the same time the the
channel just grows that much faster
versus the way that I think I think a
lot of people do it which is they just
keep watching more YouTube videos and
more YouTube videos and they get you
know conflicting advice and they get
confused and there's something about
paying for it that makes you pay
attention and Implement and if I if
there's one mistake that I made it was
it was not implementing fast enough like
again you know these experts were
telling me what I need to do in terms of
my thumbnail what I need to do in terms
of how I started my video I'm like h i
I'll eventually it it'll work out it
didn't work out until I literally
started to follow their advice so shout
out to Liz at vid fluenc and shout out
to Sean and the team at um think media
the creators of video ranking academy by
the way I'm going to be at the
conference for vid grow with video it's
if you're thinking about growing your
YouTube channel this is like the I'm not
just saying this because I'm speaking at
it because doesn't it doesn't matter to
me but I would love to meet you there
and if you're trying to grow your you
presence and you're thinking about like
going to an in-person um conference it's
in Vegas and I'd love to see you there
so I'll I'll put a link to that Below in
the show description as well hey thanks
so much for joining me here on build
your tribe it is my goal to be brief to
be bright to make it fun and then be
done and we're
done
[Music]
bye
oh